OSSM-3180: Integration of cert-manager with Service-Mesh (#57747)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-cert-manager-integration-istio.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service_mesh/v2x/ossm-security.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ossm-cert-manager-integration-istio_{context}"]
== Integrating Service Mesh with cert-manager and istio-csr

cert-manager adds certificates and certificate issuers as resource types in Kubernetes clusters, and simplifies the process of obtaining, renewing and using those certificates. 

It obtains certificates from a variety of Issuers, both popular public Issuers as well as private Issuers, and ensures the certificates are valid and up-to-date. It also attempts to renew certificates at a configured time before expiry. 

cert-manager enables Istio users to integrate with their private or external PKI. `istio-csr` acts as an external CA for Istio. When it is enabled, applications within a mesh send requests for signing certificates to `istio-csr`. 

.Prerequisites

> * cert-manager v1.11+ or community cert-manager operator v1.11+ or cert-manager operator provided by Red Hat v1.10+.

Reviewer: I find it a little hard to read this line with "...  or .. or ... ", perhaps it'd read better as a nested bulleted list.

Author: Good point. Thank you!

* OSSM operator 2.4+

> 

Reviewer: This might be a good place to call out our support limitations, which need to be noted somewhere here. 

The only cert-manager operator that we support is the recently GAed [cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-install.html) (not sure the official name or version - should check that). If that's viable (did we test against this @jewertow?), we should make sure to use the exact name and link to the installation page. We do NOT provide support istio-csr as of 2.4.  Customers who want support for istio-csr and/or other instances of cert-manager will need to use the services of a vendor like JetStack. We don't have to mention the need for support for another vendor or JetStack specifically (though they did help with this feature), but should at least make our support boundaries very clear.

Author: I have added a Note to clarify: "Red Hat provides support for integrating with istio-csr and cert-manager. It does not provide support for the istio-csr or cert-manager components. The use of community cert-manager and istio-csr shown here are for demonstration purposes only."
--

Author: Leaving comment open until it is confirmed if the cert-manager integration was tested against [cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-install.html)

Author: @jewertow can you confirm if this integration was tested against [cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-install.html)

Reviewer 2: I think we could say that **we test** OSSM with Red Hat cert-manager and cert-manager-istio-csr, **but we don't provide support for these components**, we only provide support for integration with them.
WDYT?

Author: To clarify @jewertow and @longmuir , should "OSSM operator 2.4+" be changed to "cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift"?

I can link to the installation https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-install.html in an "Additional resources"  section as that is doc style for links.

Author: Oh wait...I think I see ... it's not "OSSM operator 2.4+" ... it's the cert-manager v1.10+

That has now been updated to "cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift" as titled and referenced in the docs.

Reviewer 2: I think we could note that we test this integration with Red Hat cert-manager, but it should work with cert-manager provided by the community operator and helm charts as well.

Reviewer: @jewertow The cert-manager docs are a bit confusing there.. it is GA now, the red blob says "If you used the Technology Preview version... you must uninstall it".

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service_mesh/v2x/ossm-security.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ossm-cert-manager-integration-istio_{context}"]
== Integrating Service Mesh with cert-manager and istio-csr

cert-manager adds certificates and certificate issuers as resource types in Kubernetes clusters, and simplifies the process of obtaining, renewing and using those certificates. 

It obtains certificates from a variety of Issuers, both popular public Issuers as well as private Issuers, and ensures the certificates are valid and up-to-date. It also attempts to renew certificates at a configured time before expiry. 

> cert-manager enables Istio users to integrate with their private or external PKI. `istio-csr` acts as an external CA for Istio. When it is enabled, applications within a mesh send requests for signing certificates to `istio-csr`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cert-manager also provides integration for Istio users. istio-csr is a CA server that handles CSR requests from Istio proxies and delegates signing to cert-manager that forwards CSRs to the configured CA server.
```

[NOTE]
====
Red Hat provides support for integrating with `istio-csr` and cert-manager. It does not provide support for the `istio-csr` or cert-manager components. The use of community cert-manager and `istio-csr` shown here are for demonstration purposes only.
====

.Prerequisites
* One of these versions of cert-manager: 
** cert-manager v1.11+ 
** community cert-manager operator v1.11+ 
** cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift v1.10+

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* istio-csr v0.6.0+
```

Author: According to this https://github.com/maistra/istio-operator/tree/maistra-2.4/deploy/examples/cert-manager/istio-csr , Kiali is now a prerequisite. Does that need to be added here as well?

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* istio-csr v0.6.0+
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service_mesh/v2x/ossm-security.adoc

> :_content-type: CONCEPT

Reviewer 3: Maybe:
```suggestion
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
```

> [id="ossm-cert-manager-integration-istio_{context}"]

Reviewer 3: ID and filename must be identical like you've done here.
The [guidance for assembly or module file names](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#assemblymodule-file-names) is: 
> Try to shorten the file name as much as possible without abbreviating important terms that may cause confusion. For example, the `managing-authorization-policies.adoc` file name would be appropriate for an assembly titled "Managing Authorization Policies".

If this module is actually the beginning of a procedure and you keep the title, consider renaming the file and ID. For example:
 ```suggestion
[id="ossm-integrating-service-mesh-w-cert-manager_{context}"]
```

> == Integrating Service Mesh with cert-manager and istio-csr

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Integrating Service Mesh with cert-manager and istio-csr
```

Reviewer 3: * This must be an H1. Rely on `leveloffset` in the assembly to place it correctly in the hierarchy.
* If this is a concept, its title should begin with a noun phrase. However, it looks like this is actually the beginning of a three-part procedure. I'd run this by @bburt-rh for additional feedback.

> cert-manager is a solution for X.509 certificate management on Kubernetes. It delivers a unified API to integrate applications with private or public key infrastructure (PKI), such as Vault, Google Cloud Certificate Authority Service, Let's Encrypt, and other providers. 

Reviewer 4: Technically, we're not supposed to start the sentence with a lowercase letter, so I think it would better here and in the next para to say 'The cert-manager utility` (or "tool")

> It ensures the certificates are valid and up-to-date, and attempts to renew certificates at a configured time before expiration. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
cert-manager ensures the certificates are valid and up-to-date by attempting to renew certificates at a configured time before they expire. 
```
- "It" is an ambiguous pronoun reference
- rephrase to show relationship between what it does and the method it uses.

> cert-manager also provides integration for Istio users. `istio-csr` is a certificate authority (CA) server that handles certificate signing requests (CSR) from Istio proxies and delegates signing to cert-manager that forwards CSRs to the configured CA server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For Istio users, cert-manager also provides integration with `istio-csr`, which is a certificate authority (CA) server that handles certificate signing requests (CSR) from Istio proxies. The server then delegates signing to cert-manager, which forwards CSRs to the configured CA server.
```
- Consider rewording to improve the readability and make clear that the integration is with the `istio-csr` server.

[NOTE]
====

> Red Hat provides support for integrating with `istio-csr` and cert-manager. It does not provide direct support for the `istio-csr` or the community cert-manager components. The use of community cert-manager shown here is for demonstration purposes only.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Red Hat provides support for integrating `istio-csr` with cert-manager. Red Hat does not provide direct support for the `istio-csr` or the community cert-manager components. The use of community cert-manager shown here is for demonstration purposes only.
```

====

.Prerequisites
* One of these versions of cert-manager: 

> ** cert-manager 1.11 or later 
> ** community cert-manager Operator 1.11 or later 
> ** cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift 1.10 or later

Reviewer 2: We should suggest to use Red Hat cert-manager:
```suggestion
** cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift 1.10 or later
** community cert-manager Operator 1.11 or later
** cert-manager 1.11 or later
```

* OpenShift Service Mesh Operator 2.4 or later
* `istio-csr` 0.6.0 or later

[NOTE]
====

> To avoid creating configmaps in all namesspaces when `istio-csr` is installed with helm chart `jetstack/cert-manager-istio-csr`, Red Hat recommends setting `app.controller.configmapNamespaceSelector: "maistra.io/member-of: <istio-namespace>`".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To avoid creating config maps in all namespaces when the `istio-csr` server is installed with the `jetstack/cert-manager-istio-csr` Helm chart, use the following setting: `app.controller.configmapNamespaceSelector: "maistra.io/member-of: <istio-namespace>`".
```
- edit for clarity and styles. For example, "config map" or "the `ConfigMap` object".
- Also it's not clear to me where this setting needs to be changed. What file or config map?
